# What is SQL injection (SQLi)
---
- _SQLi is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to interfere with the queries that an application makes to its database._
- It generally allows an attacker to view data that they are not normally to retrieve.
	- This might include data beloging to others users, or any sensitive data that present in the application itself.
- In many cases, an attacker can _modify_ or _delete_ this data, causing persistent changes to the application's content or behavior.

- In some situations, an attacker can escalate a SQLi attack to compromise the underlying server or other back-end ifrastructure, or perform a denial-of-service attack.

# What is the impact of a successful SQLi attack?
---
- A successful SQLi attack can result in **unauthorized access to sensitive data**, such as _passwords_, _credit card details_, or _personal user information_.
- Many high-profile data breaches in recent years have been the result of SQLi attacks, leading to reputational damage and regulatory fines.
- An attacker can obtain a persistent backdoor into an organization's systems, leading to a long-term compromise that can go unnoticed for an extended period.

# SQL injection examples
---
- There are a wide variety of SQL injection vulnerabilities, attacks, and techniques, which arise in different situations.
- Some common SQL injection examples include:
	- **Retrieving hidden data** => where you can modify a SQL query to return additional results.
	- **Subverting application logic** => where you can change a query to interfere with the application's logic.
	- **UNION attacks** => where you can retrieve data from different database tables.
	- **Examining the database** => where you can extract information about the version and structure of the database.
	- **Blind SQL injection** => where the results of a query you control are not returned in the application's responses.

# How to prevent SQLi
---
- Most instances of SQLi can be prevented by using parameterized queries (_also known as prepared statements_) instead of string concatenation within the query.

The following code is vulnerable to SQL injection because the user input is concatenated directly into the query:
```sql
String query = "SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = '"+ input + "'"; 
Statement statement = connection.createStatement(); 
ResultSet resultSet = statement.executeQuery(query);
```

This code can be easily rewritten in a way that _prevents_ the _user input_ from _interfering with the query structure_:
```sql
PreparedStatement statement = connection.prepareStatement("SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = ?"); 
statement.setString(1, input); 
ResultSet resultSet = statement.executeQuery();
```

- Parameterized queries can be used for any situation where untrusted input appears as data within the query, including the `WHERE` clause and values in an `INSERT` or `UPDATE` statement. 
- They can't be used to handle untrusted input in other parts of the query, such as table or column names, or the `ORDER BY` clause. 
- Application functionality that places untrusted data into those parts of the query will need to take a different approach, such as white-listing permitted input values, or using different logic to deliver the required behavior.

- For a parameterized query to be effective in preventing SQL injection, the string that is used in the query must always be a hard-coded constant, and must never contain any variable data from any origin. 
- Do not be tempted to decide case-by-case whether an item of data is trusted, and continue using string concatenation within the query for cases that are considered safe. 
- It is all too easy to make mistakes about the possible origin of data, or for changes in other code to violate assumptions about what data is tainted.