# What is authentication?
---
- Authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a given user or client. 
- In other words, it involves making sure that they really are who they claim to be. 
- At least in part, websites are exposed to anyone who is connected to the internet by design. 
- Therefore, robust authentication mechanisms are an integral aspect of effective web security.

There are **three** authentication factors into which different types of authentication can be categorized:
1. Something you **know**, such as password or the answer to a security question. These are sometimes referred to as "_knowledge factors_".
2. Something you **have**, that is, a physical object like a mobile phone or security token. These are sometimes referred to as "_possession factors_".
3. Something you **are** or do, for example, your biometrics or patterns of behavior. These are sometimes referred to as "_inherence factors_".

# What is the difference between authentication and authorization?
---
- _Authentication_ is the process of verifying that a user really **is who they claim to be**.
- _Authorization_ involves verifying whether a user **is allowed to do something**.

In the context of a website or web application, _authentication_ determines whether someone attempting to access the site with the username `Carlos123` really is the same person who created the account.

Once `Carlos123` is authenticated, his permissions determine whether or not he is _authorized_, for example, to access personal information about other users or perform actions such as deleting another user's account.

# How do authentication vulnerabilities arise?
---
Broadly speaking, most vulnerabilities in authentication mechanisms arise in one of two ways:

- The authentication mechanisms are weak because they fail to adequately protect against brute-force attacks.
- Logic flaws or poor coding in the implementation allow the authentication mechanisms to be bypassed entirely by an attacker. 
	- This is sometimes referred to as "_broken authentication_".

In many areas of web development, [logic flaws](https://portswigger.net/web-security/logic-flaws) will simply cause the website to behave unexpectedly, which may or may not be a security issue. However, as authentication is so critical to security, the likelihood that flawed authentication logic exposes the website to security issues is clearly elevated.

# What is the impact of vulnerable authentication?
---
- The impact of authentication vulnerabilities can be very severe. 
- Once an attacker has either bypassed authentication or has brute-forced their way into another user's account.
- They have access to all the data and functionality that the compromised account has. 
- If they are able to compromise a high-privileged account, they could take full control over the entire application and potentially gain access to internal infrastructure.

- Even compromising a low-privileged account might still grant an attacker access to data that they otherwise shouldn't have.
- Even if the account does not have access to any sensitive data, it might still allow the attacker to access additional pages, which provide a further attack surface. 
- Often, certain high-severity attacks will not be possible from publicly accessible pages, but they may be possible from an internal page.